docs/examples/index.md, before:

# Function Calls by Example

## Quick Links

1. [How are single and multi-label classifications done using enums?](classification.md)
2. [How is AI self-assessment implemented with `llm_validator`?](self_critique.md)
3. [How to do classification in batch from user provided classes.](batch_classification.md)
4. [How are exact citations retrieved using regular expressions and smart prompting?](exact_citations.md)
5. [How are search queries segmented through function calling and multi-task definitions?](search.md)
6. [How are knowledge graphs generated from questions?](knowledge_graph.md)
7. [How are complex queries decomposed into subqueries in a single request?](planning-tasks.md)
8. [How are entities extracted and resolved from documents?](entity_resolution.md)
9. [How is Personally Identifiable Information sanitized from documents?](pii.md)
10. [How are action items and dependencies generated from transcripts?](action_items.md)
11. [How to enable OpenAI's moderation](moderation.md)
12. [How to extract tables using GPT-Vision?](extracting_tables.md)
13. [How to generate advertising copy from image inputs](image_to_ad_copy.md)

Explore more!

Commit message:

feat(Instructor): integrate with SQLModel, provide documentation and example (#418)
Co-authored-by: Jason Liu <jxnl@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/examples/index.md, after:

# Function Calls by Example

## Quick Links

1. [How are single and multi-label classifications done using enums?](classification.md)
2. [How is AI self-assessment implemented with `llm_validator`?](self_critique.md)
3. [How to do classification in batch from user provided classes.](batch_classification.md)
4. [How are exact citations retrieved using regular expressions and smart prompting?](exact_citations.md)
5. [How are search queries segmented through function calling and multi-task definitions?](search.md)
6. [How are knowledge graphs generated from questions?](knowledge_graph.md)
7. [How are complex queries decomposed into subqueries in a single request?](planning-tasks.md)
8. [How are entities extracted and resolved from documents?](entity_resolution.md)
9. [How is Personally Identifiable Information sanitized from documents?](pii.md)
10. [How are action items and dependencies generated from transcripts?](action_items.md)
11. [How to enable OpenAI's moderation](moderation.md)
12. [How to extract tables using GPT-Vision?](extracting_tables.md)
13. [How to generate advertising copy from image inputs](image_to_ad_copy.md)
14. [How to use local models from Ollama](ollama.md)
15. [How to store responses in a database with SQLModel](sqlmodel.md)

Explore more!
