docs/cli/finetune.md, before:

# Using the Command Line Interface
The instructor CLI provides functionalities for managing fine-tuning jobs on OpenAI.

## Creating a Fine-Tuning Job

### View Jobs Options

```sh
$ instructor jobs --help 
                                                                                                               
 Usage: instructor jobs [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...                                                            
                                                                                                               
 Monitor and create fine tuning jobs                                                                           
                                                                                                               
╭─ Options ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --help          Show this message and exit.                                             │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─ Commands ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ cancel                    Cancel a fine-tuning job.                                                         │
│ create-from-file          Create a fine-tuning job from a file.                                             │
│ create-from-id            Create a fine-tuning job from an existing ID.                                     │
│ list                      Monitor the status of the most recent fine-tuning jobs.                           │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

### Create from File

The create-from-file command uploads and trains a model in a single step:

```sh
$ instructor jobs create-from-file transformed_data.jsonl 
```

### Create from ID

The create-from-id command uses an uploaded file and trains a model

```sh
$ instructor files upload transformed_data.jsonl 
$ instructor files list
...
$ instructor jobs create-from-file <file_id>
```


### Viewing Files and Jobs

#### Viewing Jobs

```sh
$ instructor jobs list 

OpenAI Fine Tuning Job Monitoring                                                
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                ┃              ┃                ┃     Completion ┃                 ┃                ┃        ┃                 ┃
┃ Job ID         ┃ Status       ┃  Creation Time ┃           Time ┃ Model Name      ┃ File ID        ┃ Epochs ┃ Base Model      ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┩
│ ftjob-PWo6uwk… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       23:10:54 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-1whjva8… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       22:47:05 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-wGoBDld… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       22:44:12 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-yd5aRTc… │ ✅ succeeded │     2023-08-23 │     2023-08-23 │ ft:gpt-3.5-tur… │ file-IQxAUDqX… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       14:26:03 │       15:02:29 │                 │                │        │                 │
└────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────┴────────────────┴─────────────────┴────────────────┴────────┴─────────────────┘
                                    Automatically refreshes every 5 seconds, press Ctrl+C to exit
```


#### Viewing Files

```sh
$ instructor files list 

OpenAI Files                                                      
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┓                         
┃ File ID                       ┃ Size (bytes) ┃ Creation Time       ┃ Filename ┃ Purpose   ┃                         
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━┩                         
│ file-0lw2BSNRUlXZXRRu2beCCWjl │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 23:31:57 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-IHaUXcMEykmFUp1kt2puCDEq │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 23:09:35 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-ja9vRBf0FydEOTolaa3BMqES │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:42:29 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-F7lJg6Z47CREvmx4kyvyZ6Sn │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:42:03 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-YUxqZPyJRl5GJCUTw3cNmA46 │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:29:10 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
└───────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────────────────┴──────────┴───────────┘   
```

# Contributions 

We aim to provide a light wrapper around the API rather than offering a complete CLI. Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to make an issue at [jxnl/instructor/issues](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues) or submit a pull request.

Commit message:

new cli with validation_file and hyperparameters

docs/cli/finetune.md, after:

# Using the Command Line Interface
The instructor CLI provides functionalities for managing fine-tuning jobs on OpenAI.

## Creating a Fine-Tuning Job

### View Jobs Options

```sh
$ instructor jobs --help 
                                                                                                               
 Usage: instructor jobs [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...                                                            
                                                                                                               
 Monitor and create fine tuning jobs                                                                           
                                                                                                               
╭─ Options ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --help          Show this message and exit.                                             │
│ --hyperparameters   Specify hyperparameters for fine-tuning.                            |
│ --validation_file   Specify a validation file for fine-tuning.                          │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─ Commands ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ cancel                    Cancel a fine-tuning job.                                                         │
│ create-from-file          Create a fine-tuning job from a file.                                             │
│ create-from-id            Create a fine-tuning job from an existing ID.                                     │
│ list                      Monitor the status of the most recent fine-tuning jobs.                           │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

### Create from File

The create-from-file command uploads and trains a model in a single step.
Validation file and hyperparameters are optional.

```sh
$ instructor jobs create-from-file transformed_data.jsonl --validation_file validation_data.jsonl --hyperparameters '{"n_epochs": 3}'
```

### Create from ID

The create-from-id command uses an uploaded file and trains a model

```sh
$ instructor files upload transformed_data.jsonl 
$ instructor files list
...
$ instructor jobs create-from-file <file_id>
```


### Viewing Files and Jobs

#### Viewing Jobs

```sh
$ instructor jobs list 

OpenAI Fine Tuning Job Monitoring                                                
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                ┃              ┃                ┃     Completion ┃                 ┃                ┃        ┃                 ┃
┃ Job ID         ┃ Status       ┃  Creation Time ┃           Time ┃ Model Name      ┃ File ID        ┃ Epochs ┃ Base Model      ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┩
│ ftjob-PWo6uwk… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       23:10:54 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-1whjva8… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       22:47:05 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-wGoBDld… │ 🚫 cancelled │     2023-08-23 │            N/A │                 │ file-F7lJg6Z4… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       22:44:12 │                │                 │                │        │                 │
│ ftjob-yd5aRTc… │ ✅ succeeded │     2023-08-23 │     2023-08-23 │ ft:gpt-3.5-tur… │ file-IQxAUDqX… │ 3      │ gpt-3.5-turbo-… │
│                │              │       14:26:03 │       15:02:29 │                 │                │        │                 │
└────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────┴────────────────┴─────────────────┴────────────────┴────────┴─────────────────┘
                                    Automatically refreshes every 5 seconds, press Ctrl+C to exit
```


#### Viewing Files

```sh
$ instructor files list 

OpenAI Files                                                      
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┓                         
┃ File ID                       ┃ Size (bytes) ┃ Creation Time       ┃ Filename ┃ Purpose   ┃                         
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━┩                         
│ file-0lw2BSNRUlXZXRRu2beCCWjl │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 23:31:57 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-IHaUXcMEykmFUp1kt2puCDEq │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 23:09:35 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-ja9vRBf0FydEOTolaa3BMqES │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:42:29 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-F7lJg6Z47CREvmx4kyvyZ6Sn │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:42:03 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
│ file-YUxqZPyJRl5GJCUTw3cNmA46 │       369523 │ 2023-08-23 22:29:10 │ file     │ fine-tune │                         
└───────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────────────────┴──────────┴───────────┘   
```

# Contributions 

We aim to provide a light wrapper around the API rather than offering a complete CLI. Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to make an issue at [jxnl/instructor/issues](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues) or submit a pull request.
