docs/blog/index.md, before:

# Welcome to the Instructor Blog

The goal of the blog is to capture some content that does not neatly fit within documentation or the cookbooks.

## Advanced Topics

1. [What is Query Understanding, how does it go beyond embeddings?](posts/rag-and-beyond.md)
2. [How can one achieve GPT-4 level summaries using GPT-3.5-turbo?](posts/chain-of-density.md)
3. [What are the basics of Guardrails and Validation in AI models?](posts/validation-part1.md)
4. [How does one validate citations in AI-generated content?](posts/citations.md)
5. [What are the methods and benefits of fine-tuning and distillation in AI models?](posts/distilation-part1.md)
6. [How can I use Anyscale with Instructor?](posts/anyscale.md)

## Learning Python

- [How can I effectively cache my functions in Python?](posts/caching.md)
- [What are the fundamentals of batch processing with async in Python?](posts/learn-async.md)
- [How can I stream models to improve latency?](posts/generator.md)

## Integrations

- [Ollama](posts/ollama.md)
- [llama-cpp-python](posts/llama-cpp-python.md)
- [Anyscale](posts/anyscale.md)
- [Together Compute](posts/together.md)

## Talks

- [What were the key insights and topics covered at the AI Engineering Summit 2023?](posts/aisummit-2023.md)

Commit message:

chore: fix links and add wandb course

docs/blog/index.md, after:

# Welcome to the Instructor Blog

The goal of the blog is to capture some content that does not neatly fit within documentation or the cookbooks.

## Advanced Topics

1. [What is Query Understanding, how does it go beyond embeddings?](posts/rag-and-beyond.md)
2. [How can one achieve GPT-4 level summaries using GPT-3.5-turbo?](posts/chain-of-density.md)
3. [What are the basics of Guardrails and Validation in AI models?](posts/validation-part1.md)
4. [How does one validate citations in AI-generated content?](posts/citations.md)
5. [What are the methods and benefits of fine-tuning and distillation in AI models?](posts/distilation-part1.md)
6. [How can I use Anyscale with Instructor?](posts/anyscale.md)

## Learning Python

- [How can I effectively cache my functions in Python?](posts/caching.md)
- [What are the fundamentals of batch processing with async in Python?](posts/learn-async.md)
- [How can I stream models to improve latency?](posts/generator.md)

## Integrations

- [Ollama](posts/ollama.md)
- [llama-cpp-python](posts/llama-cpp-python.md)
- [Anyscale](posts/anyscale.md)
- [Together Compute](posts/together.md)

## Media

- [Course: Structured Outputs w/ Instructor](https://www.wandb.courses/courses/steering-language-models?x=1)
- [Keynote: Pydantic is all you need](posts/aisummit-2023.md)
