docs/contributing.md, before:

We would love for you to contribute to `Instructor`.

## [Evals](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/tree/main/tests/openai/evals)

We invite you to contribute evals in pytest as a way to monitor the quality of the openai models and the instructor library. To get started check out the [jxnl/instructor/tests/evals](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/tree/main/tests/openai/evals) and contribute your own evals in the form of pytest tests. These evals will be run once a week and the results will be posted.

## Issues

If you find a bug, please file an issue on [our issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues).

To help us reproduce the bug, please provide a minimal reproducible example, including a code snippet and the full error message.

1. The `response_model` you are using.
2. The `messages` you are using.
3. The `model` you are using.

## Pull Requests

We welcome pull requests! There is plenty to do, and we are happy to discuss any contributions you would like to make.

If it is not a small change, please start by [filing an issue](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues) first.

If you need ideas, you can check out the [help wanted](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/labels/help%20wanted) or [good first issue](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/labels/good%20first%20issue) labels.

# Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<a href="https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=jxnl/instructor" />
</a>

Commit message:

chore: add grit pattern enforcement (#243)

docs/contributing.md, after:

We would love for you to contribute to `Instructor`.

## [Evals](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/tree/main/tests/openai/evals)

We invite you to contribute evals in pytest as a way to monitor the quality of the openai models and the instructor library. To get started check out the [jxnl/instructor/tests/evals](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/tree/main/tests/openai/evals) and contribute your own evals in the form of pytest tests. These evals will be run once a week and the results will be posted.

## Issues

If you find a bug, please file an issue on [our issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues).

To help us reproduce the bug, please provide a minimal reproducible example, including a code snippet and the full error message.

1. The `response_model` you are using.
2. The `messages` you are using.
3. The `model` you are using.

## Pull Requests

We welcome pull requests! There is plenty to do, and we are happy to discuss any contributions you would like to make.

If it is not a small change, please start by [filing an issue](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/issues) first.

If you need ideas, you can check out the [help wanted](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/labels/help%20wanted) or [good first issue](https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/labels/good%20first%20issue) labels.

[Grit](https://docs.grit.io/) is used to enforce best practices. You can run `grit check` to check your code before submitting a pull request.

# Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<a href="https://github.com/jxnl/instructor/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=jxnl/instructor" />
</a>
